=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

feedmailer - sends RSS/ATOM feeds as mail or runs hooks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<feedmailer> [-t to] [-S alt. sendmail command]

B<feedmailer> -X <URI of feed> | -u <URI of feed>

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 General options

=over

=item --version

=item --help

=item -q

Quiet: Inhibit the usual output.

=item -v

Verbose: Print more information about progress.

=item -c <path/to/directory>

Configuration directory.

=item -x <unsigned integer>

Limit for the flood detection.

If a feed has more then the given amount of new articels. Don't send mails (nor
execute hooks) and report this.

This option does not act on new added feeds.

=item -X <URI of feed>

Run hooks (or send mails) just for the given URI. Note: The option I<-x> will be
disabled.

You can use this option when option I<-x> has attacked and you will run hooks
(or send mails) for the feed anyway.

=item -u <URI of feed>

Update the cache for the given URI but don't send mails (nor execute hooks).
Note: The option I<-x> will be disabled.

You can use this option to update the cache e.g. when option I<-x> has attacked.

=item -U

Update the cache like option I<-u>, but for all configurated URIs.

=item -F

Always update the cache, also on failure.

=item -n Don't send mail for older articles of new added feeds.

Creates the cache for new added feeds but don't send mails (nor execute hooks).

=item -1 <string>

Act only once at double articels. Useful for Planets etc.

The detection algorithm is based on the string set as argument with
text-substitution.

As example use the weblink I<-1"%l">, the headline I<-1"%e"> (more general)
or the host and basename of path from the weblink I<-1"%H-%B"> for detection.

=back

=head2 URI/Feed and HTTP options

No options available yet.

=over

=back

=head2 Mail options

=over

=item -t <to>

To: Recipients.

The default for I<-t> is in that order: Environment variables I<EMAIL> or as fallback I<USER>.

=item -f <from>

From: Envelope Sender.

The default for I<-f> is same as for the option I<-t>.

=item -S <alt. sendmail command>

Sendmail: Alt. sendmail command. E.g:

	ssh [user@]hostname -c sendmail

See also: L<sendmail(8)>

=back

=head2 Hook options

No options available yet.

=over

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item config.ini, config.d/*.ini

A INI style configuration file. The subscription list.

The feed URIs and some options how to handel the feeds - see the example.

Example:

	download=0                 # string (set to "attachment", "inline" or "" for disable downloading)
	filter_date=7              # integer (time difference in days. Entries older are ignored)
	filter_lang=".*"           # regex (entries with not matching languages are ignored - Example: "en|de")
	filter_list=1              # boolean (if true filtering against black- and whitlist is enabled)
	filter_size=0              # integer (size in bytes. Entries larger are ignored)
	force_secure_scheme=0      # boolean (use always the secure scheme e.g. HTTPS instead of HTTP)
	from=""                    # string (email address)
	hook=""                    # string (command to execute)
	keep_old=N                 # integer (keep always min. N IDs in cache - This should help to better recognize already read articles)
	max_threads=8              # integer
	cut_to=96                  # integer (value for the cutted values e.g. %E, %F, ... in text-substitutions)
	subject="%E (%f)"          # string
	template="mail.tt.html"    # string (rel. filename)
	to=""                      # string (email address)
	ua_proxy_uri=undef         # URI/string
	ua_timeout=180             # integer (ms)
	ua_local_address=undef     # string (Local host bind address e.g. "hostname[:port]")
	x_mailer="App::Feedmailer" # string (value for the X-Mailer mail header field)
	force_mail=0               # force send mail instead of run hook
	force_hook=0               # force run hook instead of send mail
	
	[http://www.example.org/feed.xml]
		# Using global configuration values - see above - and some overrides
		hook = ""      # string (command to execute)
		to = ""        # string (email address)
		# don't identify
		ua_from = ""   # string
		ua_string = "" # string

Each value can also set globally by an enviromenet variable in upper-case like:

	env APP_FEEDMAILER_<KEY>="<value>" feedmailer

Example howto load a feed from I2P Eepsite:

	[http://example.i2p/feed.xml]
		# e.g. for I2P HTTP proxy
		ua_proxy_uri = http://localhost:4444

Example howto load a feed from TOR hidden service:

	[http://example.onion/feed.xml]
		# e.g. for Tor SOCKS proxy
		ua_proxy_uri = socks4://localhost:9050

Text-substitution:

The keys I<subject> and I<hook> are support text-substition as follow.

	%a Author
        %B Basename of path from weblink of the article
	%c Article content data
	%C Copyright
	%d Date
	%D Feed description
	%e Headline of the article
	%E Headline of the article, cutted to cut_to chars
	%f Feed title
	%F Feed title, cutted to cut_to chars
	%H Host of the weblink from article
	%L Feed link
	%l Weblink to the article
	%m From: Envelope sender
	%P Path (without query) of the weblink from article
	%p Proxy URI
	%s Article summary data
	%% The %-sign
	%t To: Recipients

Template-processing:

In templates the following replacements are avalible.

	author
	copyright
	date
	entry_content_body
	entry_content_type
	entry_link
	entry_title, entry_title_cut
	feed_description
	feed_link
	feed_title, feed_title_cut

=item whitelist.text

A plain-text file of Perl regex-pattern (line-wise; case-insensitive).

Whitelist: If an entry title don't matched these patterns Feedmailer will ignore the entry.

	echo <WEBSITE_TITEL> | grep --color -i -E -f whitelist.text

=item blacklist.text

A plain-text file of Perl regex-pattern (line-wise; case-insensitive).

Blacklist: If an entry title matched these patterns Feedmailer will ignore the entry.

=item cache.json

A JSON file stored the already known articles (as a cache).

=item .no-feedmailer

When this file exists in the current working directory feedmailer will not run.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<feedmailer-clean(1p)>, L<listfeeds(1p)>

=cut

